Jenkins - CI/CD [ Hudson ] / Similar tools : Bamboo, TeamCity, Travis CI

Maven	- Build - JAR files
Git	- Version control system
Nagios	- Continuous Monitoring
Ansible	- Continuous Deployment
Puppet	- Configuration management
Selenium- Continuous Testing


1) Mention what are the commands you can use to start Jenkins manually?

To start Jenkins manually, you can use either of the following

(Jenkins_url)/restart: Forces a restart without waiting for builds to complete
(Jenkin_url)/safeRestart: Allows all running builds to complete

2) Mention some of the useful plugins in Jenkin?

Some of the important plugins in Jenkin includes

Maven 2 project
Amazon EC2
HTML publisher
Copy artifact
Join
Green Balls
Gits


3)Explain how you can deploy a custom build of a core plugin?

To deploy a custom field of a core plugin, you have to do following things

Stop Jenkins
Copy the custom HPI to $Jenkins_Home/plugins
Delete the previously expanded plugin directory
Make an empty file called <plugin>.hpi.pinned
Start Jenkins

4) Explain how can create a backup and copy files in Jenkins?

Jenkins saves all the setting, build artifacts and logs in its home directory, to create a back-up of your Jenkins setup, just copy this directory. You can also copy a job directory to clone or replicate a job or rename the directory.

5) Mention what are the two components Jenkins is mainly integrated with?

Jenkin is mainly integrated with two components

Version Control system like GIT, SVN
And build tools like Apache Maven.

6)What are the system requirements to install Jenkins?

Answer: The minimum configuration required is –

256MB of RAM
1 GB of drive space
Java
Web browser

7)How do you install Jenkins?

Answer: To install Jenkins, make sure the following are installed –

Java (version 8)
Apache Tomcat (version 9)
Download the Jenkins war file and deploy it using Tomcat. You can choose to install the plugins suggested by Jenkins during the installation itself. Once the installation is done, you will be able to see the Jenkins dashboard.


8)What is Groovy?

Answer: Groovy from Apache is a language for Java platform. It is the native scripting language for Jenkins. Groovy-based plugins enhance Jenkins with great interfaces and build reports that are dynamic and consistent.

9)Can you start Jenkins using command line? How?

Answer: Yes, using jenkins.exe start

10)What are the SCM tools that Jenkins supports?

Answer: The SCM or Source Code Management tools Jenkins supports are SVN, Clearcase, CVS, Git, AccuRev, Perforce, RTC, Mercurial.

11)What are the types of pipelines in Jenkins?

Answer: There are 3 types –

CI CD pipeline (Continuous Integration Continuous Delivery)
Scripted pipeline
Declarative pipeline

12)What syntax does Jenkins use to schedule build job or SVN polling?

Answer: The cron syntax.

Cron syntax is represented using five asterisks each separated by a space. The syntax is as follows – [minutes] [hours] [day of the month] [month] [day of the week]. Example, if you want to set up a cron for every Monday at 11.59 pm, it would be

59 11 * * 1

13)How does Jenkins authenticate users?

Answer: There are 3 ways –

The default way is to store user data and credentials in an internal database.
Configure Jenkins to use the authentication mechanism defined by the application server on which it is deployed.
Configure Jenkins to authenticate against LDAP server.
